Now, data from the Labor Department
shows the great resignation is actually
improving in most US states.
4.3 million Americans quit their jobs in December of 2021.
And that is down from a record high of 4 and 1/2 million
in November.
However, the report also shows the great resignation
worsened in eight states.
Some experts believe many people are still
contemplating other employment options, especially
those that were not available prior to the pandemic.
For more on that, I want to bring in Karin Kimbrough.
She's the chief economist at LinkedIn.
So Karin, in addition to people who
quit their jobs during the pandemic,
there are those who have chosen to work
remotely from other locations that they find more desirable.
How can companies convince these employees to start
coming back to the office?
Sure.
Well, there's a number of things that companies
are starting to do to try to cast that wider net and lure
employees, potential employees, especially,
back from the sidelines.
One of those things is they are definitely
starting to try to structure job applications that
allow for career pauses.
So we're seeing an increase in people
who are feeling quite comfortable saying,
I took a pause in my career.
I took six months off, a year off, and now I'm looking.
And employers are not necessarily
penalizing job seekers for that anymore.
They're also allowing people to have a lot more flexibility
in terms of where they live.
They can work remotely, have hybrid, have flexible hours
during their day or depending on which day they want to work.
And then finally, we're also seeing that employers
are doing quite a lot to just make
the workplace more of a place that's charged,
that feels like you have a connection, a collaboration
with your colleagues.
So a place that might be fun to work at.
Well, some experts believe that the best
way to keep employees happy going forward
is to offer some sort of remote work policy that would have
hybrid or flexible options.
What's your take on that?
Absolutely.
I can tell you the data do not lie.
Before the pandemic, we had maybe one in every 67 jobs
that was remote.
Now it's one in six.
So we've had literally this abundance of jobs that
are remote on our platform.
And that's not even accounting for the fact
that we have far more jobs on our platform than ever before.
In addition to that, nearly a third
of all the companies on LinkedIn are considering
offering some kind of remote or hybrid flexible work
arrangement.
And so I think really what it is that people
don't miss their commute.
They like the flexibility to be able to structure their day.
And I do think that when we look forward
into what does the future of work look like,
it will definitely include a permanent place
for remote and hybrid work.
It's very popular these days.
So which industries right now currently
have the strongest hiring rates?
And what's contributing to that?
Yeah, actually, I'm glad you mentioned that.
The hiring rates have been really strong in January.
So despite some concern about the direction of the economy,
I can tell you from what we can see here
at LinkedIn in our data, in real time in the US,
the labor market is very strong.
We're seeing people very interested in coming back
from the sidelines to work.
And we're seeing employers very competitively
bidding for these workers.
Some of the industries that are really top of mind
are recreation and travel, software and IT,
and of course, transport logistics.
All that online shopping is creating
a lot of roles in transport and logistics.
Yeah, lots of jobs for truck drivers right now.
Indeed.
One more question for you.
As we prepare for the pandemic to become an endemic,
what are some employment and workplace
trends that we might start seeing in the coming year?
One of the things that we've keyed on
is this idea that employers are going
to be looking to structure their sort of job search
for candidates in terms of skills.
So it won't be so much about necessarily just what
educational degree you have but also what skills can you bring.
And they're going to be more flexible about letting
people come from different sectors and transition in.
I mean, this great resignation that we're all talking about
is really a great reshuffle.
It's a people quitting one job and moving to another.
We're seeing a lot of that on our platform.
And people are leaving industries
and moving into whole new ones.
We have seen a lot of people leaving, for example, education
and moving into customer service and project management
because they require a lot of the same skills
if you think about it.
So what we're finding is that this transition happening
across America where people are being very open to moving
is something that's likely to continue.
And we're going to see this increase in labor
mobility for quite some time.
And I think what it's going to mean for employers
is that they're going to have to find ways to retain the talent,
make it attractive if it means paying up in wages,
making the workplace more enjoyable,
or just offering better benefits in terms of flexibility.
It is an evolving workplace these days.
Sometimes, it seems like it'll never go back entirely
to the way that it used to be.
Karin Kimbrough, thank you very much for joining us.
Thank you.